---
title: Project 2 Partial Search
navbar: Guides
layout: default
categories: writeups
---

For this project, you will extend your [previous project]({% post_url 2018-08-27-project-1 %}) to support exact search and partial search. In addition to meeting the previous project requirements, your code must be able to parse and stem a query file, generate a sorted list of search results from the inverted index, and support writing those results to a JSON file.

Pending.

{% include section.html level="h2" name="Functionality" %}

Pending

{% include section.html level="h3" name="Query File Parsing" %}

Pending

{% include section.html level="h3" name="Result Sorting" %}

Pending


{% include section.html level="h2" name="Input" %}

Your main method must be placed in a class named `Driver`. The `Driver` class should accept the following **additional** command-line arguments:

  - `-search filepath` where `-search` indicates the next argument is a path to a text file of queries to be used for search. If this flag is not provided, then no search should be performed. In this case, your code should behave exactly the same as the previous project.

  - `-exact` where `-exact` is an *optional* flag that indicates all search operations performed should be **exact** search. If the flag is NOT present, any search operations should use **partial** search instead.

  - `-results filepath` where `-results` is an *optional* flag that indicates the next argument is the path to use for the search results output file. This may include partial or exact search results! If the `filepath` argument is not provided, use `results.json` as the default output filename. If the `-results` flag is not provided, do not produce an output file of search results but still perform the search operation.

  - `-locations filepath` where `-locations` is an *optional* flag that indicates the next argument is the path to use to output all of the locations and their word count. If the `filepath` argument is not provided, use `locations.json` as the default output filename. If the `-locations` flag is not provided, do not produce an output file of locations.

The command-line flag/value pairs may be provided in any order, and the order provided is not the same as the order you should perform the operations (i.e. always build the index before performing search, even if the flags are provided in the other order).

Your code should support all of the command-line arguments from the [previous project]({% post_url 2018-08-27-project-1 %}) as well.

{% include section.html level="h2" name="Output" %}

The output of your inverted index should be the same from the [previous project]({% post_url 2018-08-27-project-1 %}). The output of your search results and locations should also be in pretty JSON format. See each subsection for specifics.

{% include section.html level="h3" name="Search Result Output" %}

The search results should be output as a JSON array of JSON objects, where each object represents a single line from the original query file (e.g. one search). The query objects should have two keys, `queries` and `results`.

Here is an example output JSON file:

```javascript
[
	{
		"queries": "lori",
		"results": [
			{
				"where": "text/simple/animals.text",
				"count": 3,
				"score": 0.272727
			}
		]
	},
	{
		"queries": "narwhal tarsier",
		"results": [
			{
				"where": "text/simple/animals.text",
				"count": 2,
				"score": 0.181818
			}
		]
	}
]
```

You can also find this output in the [`expected/results-text-exact/results-text-animals-animals.json`](https://github.com/usf-cs212-fall2018/project-tests/blob/master/expected/results-text-exact/results-text-animals-animals.json) file in the `project-tests` repository.

{% include section.html level="h3" name="Location Output" %}

The locations and their word count should be output as a JSON object with the relative path of the file as the key and the word count (after cleaning, parsing, and stemming) as the value. Here is the expected output for the word count of all the text files associated with this project:

```javascript
{
	"text/gutenberg/1400-0.txt": 187368,
	"text/gutenberg/pg1228.txt": 157344,
	"text/gutenberg/pg1322.txt": 124370,
	"text/gutenberg/pg1661.txt": 107396,
	"text/gutenberg/pg37134.txt": 16696,
	"text/rfcs/rfc475.txt": 3228,
	"text/rfcs/rfc5646.txt": 27075,
	"text/rfcs/rfc6797.txt": 12925,
	"text/rfcs/rfc6805.txt": 9785,
	"text/rfcs/rfc6838.txt": 9367,
	"text/simple/.txt/hidden.txt": 1,
	"text/simple/a/b/c/d/subdir.txt": 1,
	"text/simple/animals.text": 11,
	"text/simple/animals_copy.text": 11,
	"text/simple/animals_double.text": 22,
	"text/simple/capital_extension.TXT": 1,
	"text/simple/capitals.txt": 4,
	"text/simple/digits.txt": 2,
	"text/simple/hello.txt": 6,
	"text/simple/position.teXt": 20,
	"text/simple/symbols.txt": 10,
	"text/simple/words.tExT": 24
}
```

You can also find this output in the [`project-tests/expected/index-text-locations.json`](https://github.com/usf-cs212-fall2018/project-tests/blob/master/expected/index-text-locations.json) file in the `project-tests` repository.

<p><article class="message is-info">
  <div class="message-body">
    <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i>&nbsp;This output is provided to help you debug your result sorting. If your word count for each file does not match the expected output, then your result sorting will also mismatch.
  </div>
</article></p>

<p><article class="message is-success">
  <div class="message-body">
    <i class="fas fa-magic"></i>&nbsp;This output should look similar to that of one of your homeworks... you might be able to use it directly depending how you setup your project code!
  </div>
</article></p>

{% include section.html level="h2" name="Examples" %}

The following are a few examples (non-comprehensive) to illustrate the usage of the command-line arguments. Consider the following example:

```
java Driver -path ../project-tests/text -locations index-text-locations.json
```

Also consider the similar example:

```
java Driver -locations index-text-locations.json -path ../project-tests/text
```

Both of these are functionally equivalent to the first of the [SearchExactTest.testSimple()](https://github.com/usf-cs212-fall2018/project-tests/blob/master/src/SearchTest.java#L180) tests in the `project-tests` repository. It will create the inverted index from the `text` input directory, and output the locations and word counts to the `index-text-locations.json` location file. This is useful for debugging your search result sorting.

Also consider the following:

```
java Driver -path ../project-tests/text/simple/words.text -search ../project-tests/query/words.txt -results results-text-exact-words-words.json -exact
```

This is functionally equivalent to [LocationsTest.test()](https://github.com/usf-cs212-fall2018/project-tests/blob/master/src/SearchTest.java#L159) in the `project-tests` repository. It will create the inverted index from the `text/simple/words.text` input text file, perform an **exact** search of the queries in the `query/words.txt` query input file, and output the search results to `results-text-exact-words-words.json`.

{% include section.html level="h2" name="Hints" %}

It is important to develop the project iteratively. One possible breakdown of tasks are:

  - Add the ability to track locations and their word counts to your inverted index data structure. You can update this information every time you add data to your inverted index.

  - Add the ability to output the locations and their word counts to a JSON file. Make sure that your results match the expected location output before moving on.

  - Add the ability to parse query files. Compare your parsed queries to those in the expected output files. For example, the line `performer performers` should become `perform` after being parsed, cleaned, stemmed, sorted, and discarding duplicates.

  - Create a class that stores a single search result and implements the [Comparable](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/10/docs/api/java/lang/Comparable.html) interface. You will need data members for each of the sort criteria, including the location, total word count of the location, and number of times the query occurs at that location.

  - Add an exact search method to your inverted index data structure that takes already parsed words from a single line of the query file, and returns a sorted list of search results. Output the results to the console for debugging.

      <p><article class="message is-warning">
        <div class="message-body">
          <i class="fas fa-exclamation-triangle"></i>&nbsp;Use lists and <a href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/10/docs/api/java/util/Collections.html#sort(java.util.List)">Collections.sort(List)</a> to sort search results, not a <a href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/10/docs/api/java/util/TreeSet.html">TreeSet</a> data structure. Custom mutable objects do not behave well when used in sets or as keys in maps.
        </div>
      </article></p>

  - Add the ability to output the search results to JSON file. Make sure the exact search results match the expected output.

  - Add a partial search method to your inverted index data structure that takes already parsed words from a single line of the query file, and returns a sorted list of search results.


  - Do not worry about efficient partial search until after you are getting correct results.

The important part will be to test your code as you go. The JUnit tests provided only test the entire project as a whole, not the individual parts. You are responsible for testing the individual parts themselves.

<article class="message is-info">
  <div class="message-body">
    <i class="fas fa-info-circle"></i>&nbsp;These hints may or may not be useful depending on your approach. Do not be overly concerned if you do not find these hints helpful for your approach for this project.
  </div>
</article>
