---
title: Exam 1 Review
navbar: Guides
layout: default
categories: exams
label: New!
---

## Exam Format

The exam should take around 1 hour to complete, but you will have the entire class time of **1 hour 45 minutes** to complete the exam. **Please plan to complete the exam in a single sitting.**

The exam questions may consist of multiple choice (radio buttons), multiple answer (checkboxes), fill in the blanks (text boxes), single choice (dropdowns), short answer (essay box), and short code snippets (essay box). The order you see questions and possible answers may be randomized. Most questions will be automatically graded by Canvas, except short answer and code snippets which will be graded manually by the instructor.

The exam will be conducted on Canvas using the **Respondus LockDown browser**. You will have access to the following websites during the exam:

- Java 10 Documentation, including the [Java 10 API](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/10/docs/api/), the [Java Tutorials](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/), the [Java SE 10 Language Specification](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se10/html/index.html), and the [Java Glossary](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/information/glossary.html).

- JUnit 5 Documentation, including the [JUnit 5 API](https://junit.org/junit5/docs/current/api/) and the [JUnit 5 User Guide](https://junit.org/junit5/docs/current/user-guide/).

- Log4j2 Documentation, including the [Log4j2 API](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/log4j-api/apidocs/index.html) and [Log4j2 Core API](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/log4j-core/apidocs/index.html), and the [Log4j2 Manual](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/).

The exam is otherwise **closed-book closed-note**. You may not reference any other websites other than Canvas and the approved websites above, e.g. you may not look at the class website, Github, StackOverflow, or Google. You may not open any other program other than the Lockdown Browser, e.g. you may not open Eclipse or run Java. You may not reference your cell phone or tablet during the exam (even if you take a bathroom break). You may not look at the laptop screens of your fellow classmates.

You will use your own personal laptop for the exam. Please make sure your **laptop battery is fully charged** before class, and the LockDown Browser plugin is properly installed. If you are concerned about using your laptop for any reason, please check in with the instructor BEFORE the exam!

You may ask the instructor for one piece of blank paper during the exam to use as scratch paper, but must turn in this paper at the end of class. You may not use your own paper.

You will be asked to completely clear the tables of all items except for your laptops, the piece of scratch paper, and a pencil. This includes any bags, food or drinks, or cell phones.

You may ask the instructor for clarification on a question during the exam.

<article class="message is-danger">
  <div class="message-body">
    <i class="fas fa-exclamation-triangle"></i>&nbsp;There is a 0 tolerance cheating policy: <strong>any use of unauthorized materials will immediately result in a 0 on the exam</strong>. As stated in the syllabus, honor code violations may also result in an immediate F for the entire course.
  </div>
</article>

## Exam Retake

You will have an opportunity to retake the entire exam during the next class period. The retake format is the same as before, except that the Lockdown Browser will not be used on the retake. However, you are expected to adhere to the same rules (e.g. only access allowed websites).

In addition to the allowed websites, you can also consult the instructor for hints if you do not know how to fix an answer. The instructor will also go through hints for difficult questions on the board during the retake process. You will also have access to the answers on your original attempt, but the order of questions may not be the same!

You will be able to earn back a **percentage of points that you missed** on your original attempt. The exact percentage is determined by the exam average. The exact formula used is as follows:

  > Original Percentage + ( Retake Percentage - Original Percentage ) x Retake Percent

For example, suppose you earned an 80% on your original attempt and improved that to 90% on the retake. If the retake percentage is 50%, then your final score will be:

  > 80% + ( 90% - 80% ) x 50% = 80% + ( 10% ) x 50% = 80% + 5% = 85%

**It is impossible to earn a lower score due to the retake process.** If your retake score is lower than your original score, we will use your original score instead.

## Exam Topics

Pending

## SDS Accommodations

Students may receive [exam accommodations](https://myusf.usfca.edu/sds/exam-accommodations), such as additional testing time or a more private exam setting, through [Student Disability Services](https://myusf.usfca.edu/sds/exam-accommodations). If you are planning on using these exam accommodations, please read the following.

### Requests

I must receive a notification for accommodation from [SDS](https://myusf.usfca.edu/sds) regarding this exam at least <strong>one week before the exam</strong> itself. You may have SDS proctor the exam, but you will be expected to take the exam on the same day as the rest of the class.

### Exam

For exams proctored by SDS, Canvas will be configured to automatically allow you to (1) begin the exam at your scheduled appointment time and (2) give you the additional time stipulated by your SDS alternative testing contract.

You may take the exam on your own laptop or on a computer provided by SDS, but will be expected to use the Lockdown Browser. It will be configured to automatically allow you access to the allowed Java, JUnit, and Log4j2 websites. If necessary, you can bring your own piece of scratch paper and turn it in directly to the professor when you are done.

I will be actively monitoring email for questions from your proctor, but there might be up to a 20 minute delay if your appointment happens when I am in class or in code reviews.

### Retake

You may decide whether to use SDS accommodations for the exam retake. The retake generally takes less time than the original exam, and most students decide *not* to use SDS accommodations for the retake process. Since you are allowed to ask for help during the retake, this allows you to receive more immediate help and feedback.

If you do choose to use SDS exam accommodations for the retake, I will prepare some general hints you can use during the retake. The SDS proctor can send me your questions via email, but I may not be immediately available to answer those questions during your scheduled time.
